

h1. Next-gen payment systems

<br><br>

_Bath Ruby 2015 - Lightning Talk_

*@makevoid*
Francesco Canessa
*Quill Content*

> "source":http://github.com/makevoid/bitcoin_bath_lt <br> HIDE THESE NOTES


> hide notes

> notes:

>  create wifi, connect ipad and test buttons/notes

>  put in fullscreen, open display preferences, close every other software, open quicktime and start recording (file

>  new screen recording)

>  1200x900

---


h1. Apple Pay?


---

h1. Nooo

---

h1. Google Wallet?


---

h1. Nooooo

---

h1. Paypal, NFC, credit cards...?

---

h1. Nooooooo


---


h1. Bitcoin?

---

h1. Nooooooo


---

<br>

h1. Bitcoin!



---

Why Bitcoin is "better"

---


Why Bitcoin is "better"

- push vs pull

---


Why Bitcoin is "better"

- push vs pull
- micro transactions

---


Why Bitcoin is "better"

- push vs pull
- micro transactions
- meet the reference client


---


Why Bitcoin is "better"

- *push vs pull*
- micro transactions
- meet the reference client




---

<br>

Long polling vs Websockets

Pull vs Push


> public / private key pair <br> it sucks, not only as a technology but think also about TRUST and MONEY <br> go to a shop and you are trusting the guy at the shop, the shop POS system or <br> the website's iframe, the ssl certificate, the device, the connection, the site or payment system to store your infos <br> !!!you have to login to check your balance


---

h2. Public key cryptography

(asymmetric)

---


Why Bitcoin is "better"

- push vs pull
- **micro transactions**
- meet the reference client


---

Micropayments (donations)

---


<br>

h2. No transaction fees

---

<br>

h2. 20p

Is the minimum fee for every CC transaction!

> minimum 5 pounds at the shop "or I'll charge you 50p more"

---

1 mBTC = 0.001 BTC


> tere's no point to talk about Bitcoins luckily we have Millibits!

---

1 mBTC = ~20p

<br>
<br>

1 £ = ~5 mBTC


> this is the current price, but the price doesn't matter! The cool thing is the technology!

---


Bitcoin is an awesome piece of technology


> But the price doesn't matter


---

Why (the world and) bitcoin needs your help

---

You are a programmer

---

Bitcoin is still an undiscovered land


> myriads of useful and life-changing applications can be done <br> SMS wallets, donations platforms, automated applications (with human APIs like mechanical turk), smart contracts...
---

How to do it?

---

Meet:

h1. bitcoind


---

h3. bitcoind

<br>

h1. The bitcoin "client/server"

> the network is distributed so the nodes of the network are all servers <br> bitcoind ships with bitcoin-qt client package


---

1) Download the client

h2. Bitcoin.org

---

Configure it


```sh
~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
```

---

<br>

```sh
rpcuser=bitcoin
rpcpassword=password

# prevents full blockchain dl
connect=127.0.0.1

# enables deamon in bitcoin-qt
server=1
```


---

Use it

- raw JSON

---

Use it

- raw JSON
- bitcoin-cli

---

Use it

- raw JSON
- bitcoin-cli
- **ruby!**

---

<br>

```sh
mkdir bitcoin_client_example &&
   cd bitcoin_client_example
```
---

<br>

```rb
# Gemfile

source "https://rubygems.org"

gem "bitcoin-client",
  github: "sinisterchipmunk/bitcoin-client", require: "bitcoin-client"
```


---


```rb
# bitcoin_client_example.rb

require 'bundler/setup'
Bundler.require :default




BC = BitcoinClient::Client.new 'bitcoin', 'password'

```

---

<br>

```sh
irb -r ./bitcoin_client_example.rb

irb(main):001:0>
```


---

<br>

```rb
irb> BC.balance

=> 0.0 # You will probably have an empty wallet, so you will see the float 0.0 as the balance

# the json call will be
```


---

<br>

```rb
irb> BC.accounts

=> {""=>0.0}
```

remember: You don't need an internet connection to check the balance if you have the whole blockchain saved into your pc/laptop, even to sign a transaction! So you can issue payments and the transaction will be propagated as soon as the network gores up again and bitcoind connects to another node.

---

<br>

```rb
irb> puts BC.help

=> list of all useful! commands...
```

---

<br>


```rb
irb> BC.getaccountaddress ""

=> "1MjTBm2TeHPAaXJnNGu6MyFqFnVm8g7Ys7"
```

---

<br>

```rb
irb> BC.dumpprivkey "1MjTBm2TeHPAaXJnNGu6MyFqFnVm8g7Ys7"

=> "L31fFyL8yWR1Mq8ii6kV1VLCp8jtmidWMKiCVqTDRGE76MsctCEG"
```

---

<br>

```rb
irb> BC.sendtoaddress "1MjTBm2TeHPAaXJnNGu6MyFqFnVm8g7Ys7", 0.001

=> "a2a2eb18cb051b5fe896a32b1cb20b179d981554b6bd7c5a956e56a0eecb04f1"
```

---

Other Ruby libs (gems):

- bitcoin

- money-tree

---

<br><br>

h2. Bitcoin.org

---


<br>

<br>

h2. Book: Mastering Bitcoin - O'Reilly - Andreas Antonopolous

Italian translation status: ~820%


> BTC NFC Coins

---


<br><br>


h2. Thanks!


"github.com/makevoid/bitcoin_bath_lt":http://github.com/makevoid/bitcoin_bath_lt


<br><br>

This presentation in "textile format":https://github.com/makevoid/bitcoin_bath_lt/blob/master/slides.textile

Working basic-wallet-balance hello-world app-examples with ruby and bitcoind/bitcoin-qt (bitcoin core):

"Example 1":https://github.com/makevoid/bitcoin_client_example

"Example 2":https://github.com/makevoid/faucet

<br>

"Photos (1)":https://www.flickr.com/photos/simonstarr/16831284558/in/album-72157651314895520/ - "Photos (2)":https://www.flickr.com/photos/simonstarr/17018173201/in/album-72157651314895520/

"Video":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ifeFIiOacA&t=18m10s
